Chapter 1. Multiple View Geometry Introduction

Projective transformations to map objects onto the picture. Angles, distances, ratios of distance are not preserved. Straight lines are preserved. 
Ideal points at infinity are placed into Euclidean space to create projective space, so that two lines will always eventually meet in a point. 
A point in Euclidean 2-space is represented by (x,y). This can be extended to 3D space by adding a dimension at 1, (x,y,1). (2x,2y,2) and (x,y,1) represent the same point. Generalized, (kx,ky,k) are all the same point, getting the original point by dividing all coordinates by k. As such, the triple (x,y,0) does not correspond to any point. Dividing by the last coordinate results in dividing by 0. 

Homogeneity: 
In Euclidean geometry, all points are the same. When coordinates are added, the origin can be picked arbitrarily. This origin is only the origin of the particular coordinate system of reference that has been picked. Shifting and rotating the coordinate system to align with a different one is known as a Euclidean transform. Affine transformation is more general and adds another element, linear transformation (stretching) to the transform, which already consists of translation and rotation. The result of either transformation type is thta points at infinity remain at infinity. In projective geometry, points at infinity are not any different from other points. 

Projective transformation can be defined in projective space. Linear transformation of Euclidean space is represented by matrix multiplication applied to the coordinates of the point. A projective transformation of projective space is a mapping of the homogeneous coordinates representing a point, by multiplication of the coordinate vector by a non-singular matrix, a linear transformation of homogeneous points. Points at infinity with final coordinate zero are mapped to arbitrary other points and are not preserved. 

Affine Geometry
Affine - Initial - No particular preferred coordinate frame, meanining that there is no concept of parallelism of lines or planes since parallel lines are the ones that meet at infinity. However, in projective space, no concept of points at infinity since all points are the same. In order for this to make sense, some line needs to be designated as the line at infinity. Points on this line at infinity show up as the horizon line in images. Lines such as railway tracks show up in the image as lines meeting at the horizon. 

Points in the image above the horizon apparently do not correspond to points in the world plane, but if the corresponding ray is extended backwards behind the camera, it will meet the plane at a point behind the camera. Therefore, there exists a one-to-one relationship between points in the image and points in the world plane. 

Points at infinity in the world plane correspond to the real horizon line in the image and parallel lines in the world correspond to lines meeting at the horizon. Geometry of projective plane and a distinguished line is known as affine geometry and any projective transformation that maps the distinguished line of one space to the distinguished line of another space is an affine transformation. 

By defining parallelism with the distinguished line at infinity, other concepts can amke sense as well such as equalities of intervals between points on parallel lines.

Affine geometry does not distinguish between circles and ellipses.

Euclidean Geometry

Circles and ellipses are distinct. Two ellipses will intersect at 4 points while 2 circles cannot intersect in more than two points. Two second-degree curves are being intersected, so 4 intersections are expected, but for circles 2 of those occur in complex space. In fact, every circle intersects at (1, +- i, 0)^T. Since their final coordinate is 0, these two points lie on the line at infinity, the 2 "circular points". Although they are complex, they satisfy the equation pair x^2 + y^2 = 0; w = 0. Circle in Homogeneous coordinates (x,y,w) is of the form: (x-aw)^2 + (y-bw)^2 = r^2*w^2

A circle can be defined as any conic (curve defined by a second-degree equation) that passes through the two circular points.
A general definition of conic requires 5 points but a circle only needs 3 because 2 of them are these complex circular points.
Euclidean geometry can be defined by singling out the line at infinity and the two circular points on this line from projective geometry. 

3D Euclidean geometry
Euclidean plane definition using line at infinity and 2 circular points can be extended to 3D by looking at how spheres intersect. Two spheres intersect in a circle and not in a general 4th degree curve as two general ellipsoids or quadric surfaces do. 
This leads to the following: All spheres in homogeneous coordinates (X,Y,Z,T)T intersect the plane at infinity in a curve with the equations X^2+Y^2+Z^2 = 0, T = 0.
This is a conic (Second degree curve) lying on the plane at infinity and consists solely of complex points, the Absolute Conic. This is relevant to camera calibration.

In general, 3D euclidean space can be derived from projective space by singling out a plane at infinity and specififying a conic on the plane as the absolute conic. Angles can be defined in terms of the absolute conic in any arbitrary coordinate system. 

Camera Projections
Formation of 2d representation of 3d world.
Drop from 3d to 2d loses one dimension via projection process. 
Central projection - ray from a point in space is drawn from a 3D world point through a fixed point in space, the center of projection, and 
 
